---
title: "What We Have Gained from Ibogaine: α3β4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Inhibitors as Treatments for Substance Use Disorders"
authors:
  - "Straub, Carolyn J."
  - "Rusali, Lisa E."
  - "Kremiller, Kyle M."
  - "Riley, Andrew P."
year: 2022
category: ORANGE
tags:
  - mechanism/nicotinic-receptor
  - topic/efficacy
key_findings: "RETROSPECTIVE ADD: Review of ibogaine and α3β4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor inhibitors as treatments for substance use disorders."
doi: "10.1021/acs.jmedchem.2c01562"
pmid: "36440853"
pmcid: "PMC10034762"
journal: "Journal of Medicinal Chemistry"
publication_date: "2022-09-23"
document_type: review
aliases: ["Straub 2022", "Straub"]
source_pdf: "2022/Straub2022_Ibogaine_Nicotinic_Acetylcholine_Receptor_Inhibitors_Tx_SUDs.pdf"
evidence_level: review
clinical_significance: moderate
sample_size: 
qtc_data: false
electrolyte_data: false
herg_data: false
contraindications: []
open_access: true
publisher: "American Chemical Society"
body_format: academic-retained
---

# What We Have Gained from Ibogaine:  Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Inhibitors as Treatments for Substance Use Disorders

**Journal of Medicinal Chemistry | Perspective**

**Carolyn J. Straub, Lisa E. Rusali, Kyle M. Kremiller, and Andrew P. Riley***
*Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, United States*

**Cite This:** [https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.2c01562](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.2c01562)
**Received:** September 23, 2022

---

### ABSTRACT

For decades, ibogaine—the main psychoactive alkaloid found in *Tabernanthe iboga*—has been investigated as a possible treatment for substance use disorders (SUDs) due to its purported ability to interrupt the addictive properties of multiple drugs of abuse. Of the numerous pharmacological actions of ibogaine and its derivatives, the inhibition of α3β4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) represents a probable mechanism of action for their apparent anti-addictive activity. In this Perspective, we examine several classes of compounds that have been discovered and developed to target α3β4 nAChRs. Specifically, by focusing on compounds that have proven efficacious in pre-clinical models of drug abuse and have been evaluated clinically, we highlight the promising potential of the α3β4 nAChRs as viable targets to treat a wide array of SUDs. Additionally, we discuss the challenges faced by the existing classes of α3β4 nAChR ligands that must be overcome to develop them into therapeutic treatments.

---

### INTRODUCTION

Due to its potent hallucinogenic properties, root bark from the central African iboga shrub (*Tabernanthe iboga*) has been harvested and ingested for centuries by Bwiti and Mbiri practitioners during rituals. Over the past several decades, the use of *T. iboga*, or ibogaine, the major psychoactive iboga alkaloid, has attracted growing interest in other parts of the world due to its purported ability to cure drug addictions (**Figure 1**).

These claims were first tested clinically in 1955, when the National Institute of Mental Health Addiction Research Center administered ibogaine to prisoners with prior histories of opioid dependence.  As with many hallucinogens, ibogaine was quickly diverted to recreational use in the United States. One user in particular, Howard Lotsof, became convinced of its anti-addictive properties after having a transformational experience with the drug in the early 1960s, leading him to champion efforts to investigate ibogaine’s use as a treatment for substance use disorders (SUDs). In five United States patents issued to Lotsof between 1985 and 1992, he claimed the use of ibogaine to have long-lasting efficacy in the treatment of opiate, cocaine, amphetamine, alcohol, and nicotine dependence.  Although these claims remain to be validated through rigorous, double-blinded clinical trials, the medical subculture surrounding Howard Lotsof and iboga introduced ibogaine to mainstream academic circles. With the recent resurgence in interest in psychedelics as legitimate pharmacotherapies, the history of ibogaine feels acutely relevant.

**Figure 1. Structures of iboga alkaloids and their analogues.**

| Compound | R¹ | R² | R³ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Ibogaine** | OMe | H | H |
| **Noribogaine** | OH | H | H |
| **Ibogamine** | H | H | H |
| **Voacangine** | OMe | CO₂Me | H |
| **18-hydroxycoronaridine** | H | CO₂Me | OH |
| **Coronaridine** | H | CO₂Me | H |
| **18-MC** | H | CO₂Me | OMe |

Stanley Glick, a physician-scientist at Albany Medical College, was initially skeptical of Lotsof’s claims of ibogaine’s efficacy. However, after hearing similar accounts from numerous other ibogaine users, Glick came to “believe that there [was] at least something there that [was] worth investigating” and began testing ibogaine in rodent models of substance abuse. The results from these studies generally corroborated Lotsof’s claims: in rats, ibogaine decreased intravenous morphine and cocaine self-administration, as well as oral intake of alcohol and nicotine.

Despite these encouraging *in vivo* effects, the therapeutic potential of ibogaine is limited by its potentially life-threatening side effects. Ibogaine and its major metabolite noribogaine (**Figure 1**) inhibit hERG channels, resulting in QT interval prolongation that can persist for over a week and progress to acute heart failure or cardiopulmonary arrest.  Ibogaine is also an oneirogen—an agent that produces or enhances dreamlike states of consciousness—and is infamous for inducing intensely unpleasant psychological effects. Consistent with the side effects reported by human users, ibogaine also induces cardiotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and whole-body shaking in rats.

In hopes of discovering a compound with similar potential to treat SUDs and an improved side effect profile, Glick and synthetic chemist Martin Kuehne began developing analogues of ibogaine. Their initial work revealed that the structurally related iboga alkaloids ibogamine and coronaridine mimicked ibogaine’s effects on morphine and cocaine self-administration. However, unlike ibogaine, coronaridine did not cause tremors in rodents, making it an attractive starting compound for derivatization. Coronaridine’s synthetic analogue 18-methoxycoronaridine (**18-MC**) decreased morphine and cocaine self-administration in rats without inducing tremoring or neurotoxicity, demonstrating that it was possible to dissociate the anti-addictive efficacy from ibogaine’s characteristic side effects. It was later discovered that 18-MC inhibits nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), with a modest selectivity for α3β4 over other neuronal nAChR subtypes, providing the first mechanistic hypothesis for the anti-addictive properties of ibogaine and its derivatives.

### α3β4 nAChR

The nAChRs are a family of ligand-gated ion channels found throughout the peripheral and central nervous systems (CNS). Humans express 11 different nAChR subunits in the CNS—eight α-subunits (α2−7, α9, and α10) and three β-subunits (β2−β4). Each subunit is composed of four transmembrane domains with extracellular amino and carboxy termini. These subunits assemble into a large assortment of homo- or hetero-pentamers known as subtypes. nAChR subtypes differ in their location of expression, biophysical properties (i.e., channel open time, desensitization rate, and ion selectivity), and sensitivity to agonists and antagonists. Based on these differences, specific nAChR subtypes have been implicated in a variety of CNS diseases and disorders including epilepsy (α4β2), Alzheimer's disease (α4β2, α7), Parkinson's disease (α6β2, α4β2), inflammation (α9α10, α7), schizophrenia (α7), neuropathic pain (α9α10, α6β4), and drug addiction (α3β4, α4β2, α6β2). Because it is the most abundant nAChR subtype in the CNS, medicinal chemistry efforts have largely focused on the α4β2 subtype, ultimately leading to the development of the α4β2 partial agonist varenicline as a smoking cessation aid.

**Figure 2. Overview of ligand binding to α3β4 nAChRs.**

*  ● = channel-blocking site (mecamylamine)
*  ◆ = orthosteric site (α-conotoxins, AT-1001, PF-4575180, CP-601932)
*  + = proposed allosteric site (18-MC)
* Open shapes = supported by docking studies only; Solid shapes = supported by both docking and experimental studies.
* The (+) and (-) on the subunits refer to the principle and complementary faces of the binding sites, respectively. Receptor image created from cryo-EM structure of α3β4 nAChR (PDB: 6PV8) bound to AT-1001 (red spheres).

As the name suggests, nAChRs are activated by the endogenous neurotransmitter acetylcholine and the exogenous agonist nicotine. The orthosteric sites are situated at the two α(+)/β(−) interfaces (**Figure 2**) and characterized by an "aromatic box" consisting of a series of tryptophan and tyrosine residues arranged to simultaneously form cation−π interactions with the cations found in many nAChR orthosteric ligands.  In addition to this highly conserved motif, the nAChR orthosteric site is defined by the α subunits' loop C, which contains a characteristic disulfide bridge formed between two adjacent cysteine residues. Evidence from acetylcholine binding proteins (AChBPs), soluble homologues of the extracellular domains of nAChRs found in certain mollusks, indicates that agonist or antagonist binding in the orthosteric site induces a conformational change in the receptor, with loop C moving toward or away from the ligand, respectively. This movement in loop C is believed to be correlated with the opening of the ion channel.

In contrast to the rest of the CNS, where the α4β2 and α7 subtypes predominate, the medial habenula (MHb) and interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) contain a localized density of the α3β4 subtype. Projections from the MHb innervate the IPN, which connects to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a classical "reward center" of the brain composed largely of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Cholinergic signaling along this MHb-IPN pathway, modulated by the α3β4 nAChR, activates DA neurons in the VTA to release dopamine, which contributes to the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse.  Most drugs of abuse have downstream mechanisms that relay input to the neurons in the VTA, making the α3β4 nAChR critical to the development of substance use disorder treatment. In further support of the α3β4 nAChRs modulating the addictive properties of drugs of abuse, polymorphisms in genes encoding the α3β4 nAChR have been associated with increased risk for tobacco and alcohol abuse and increased dependence liability.  Taken together, the anatomical and genetic data provide strong evidence that the α3β4 nAChRs in the MHb-IPN axis play an important role in addiction and that inhibiting these receptors could be an effective strategy for treating SUDs.

In the decades since the initial discovery of its potential anti-addictive properties, ibogaine has inspired numerous avenues of research to develop a treatment for SUDs. Included among these efforts is the very recent discovery of ibogaine derivatives with minimal α3β4 nAChR affinity, which have instead been developed as non-hallucinogenic 5-HT$_{2A}$ agonists or novel agonists of the κ opioid receptor.  Similarly, the discovery of a putative receptor target for ibogaine and its derivatives has spurred research to investigate the role played by the α3β4 nAChRs in SUDs and the development of new classes of ligands to target them. While several reviews have provided detailed summaries of a single compound class, such as the iboga alkaloids, they have lacked a comprehensive overview of the α3β4 subtype and its potential as a target for SUD pharmacotherapies.  Within this Perspective, we examine the α3β4 nAChR through the lens of the different ligand classes that have shown efficacy in pre-clinical and clinical studies of SUDs. Additionally, we will discuss the remaining challenges and new opportunities to translate these compounds into effective treatments for SUDs.

### 18-MC

Although ibogaine possesses adverse effects that limit its therapeutic utility, its efficacy in animal models of SUDs and its novel mechanism of action led Glick and Kuehne to investigate derivatives of ibogaine in hopes of identifying a compound that lacked cardiotoxicity and negative behavioral effects. Voacangine and coronaridine, which bear additional methyl esters at the C16 position of ibogaine (**Figure 1**), were identified as promising starting points because they lack tremorgenic activity.

**Scheme 1. Synthesis of Ibogaine Derivative (±)-18-MC**
*(Textual description of Scheme 1)*

1. Condensation of **Aldehyde 1** with *N*-benzylated indoloazepine (**2**) in Toluene (PhMe) at reflux (24 h).
2. Fragmentation and intramolecular Diels-Alder affords tetracyclic intermediate **3**.
3. Cleavage of C3-C7 bond, debenzylation (1. NaBH$_4$, HOAc; 2. 10% Pd/C, H$_2$), hydrolysis of acetal (10% HCl/MeOH), and spontaneous cyclization yields enamine **4**.
4. Heating **4** in toluene (reflux, 3 h) induces C16 to C20 proton transfer and cyclization to form the isoquinuclidine core, yielding **(±)-18-MC**.

This synthetic sequence provides straightforward access to the ibogaine core, albeit in racemic fashion. Individual enantiomers have been isolated through the introduction of chiral auxiliaries in the synthetic sequence.  Furthermore, this route was adapted to include additional substitutions at C18 allowing for the synthesis of albifloranine (18-hydroxycoronaridine), an alkaloid originally isolated from the *Tabernaemontana albiflora*, and its derivative 18-methoxycoronaridine (**18-MC**). Evaluation of these synthetic ibogaine derivatives ultimately revealed that 18-MC is effective in rodent models of inhibiting morphine and cocaine administration while improving the side effect profile.

**Table 1. Summary of α3β4 nAChR Inhibitors In Vitro Activity**
*Note: Values marked with ^ denote electrophysiology assay, * denote calcium flux assay, and # denote radioligand binding competition experiment.*

| Compound | α3β4 Kᵢ (nM) / IC₅₀ (μM) | Other nAChRs | Other Receptors | Refs |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Iboga Alkaloids** | | | | |
| **Ibogaine** | Kᵢ = 1.05 ± 0.12# / IC₅₀ = 0.95 ± 0.13*, 0.22^ | α4β2: IC₅₀ = 1–5^ | Kᵢ = 2.2 ± 0.10 (KOR)#; 2.0 ± 0.15 (MOR)#; >10 (DOR)#; 2.6 ± 0.23 (5-HT₃)#; 16 ± 1.0 (M1)#; 0.4 ± 0.036 (σ₂)#; 3.6 ± 0.35 (Na⁺ channel)#; 3.1 ± 0.30 (NMDA)#; 4.1 ± 0.83 (5-HT uptake)# / IC₅₀ = 4.09 ± 0.69 (hERG)^ | 2, 21, 56, 162 |
| **(±)-18-MC** | Kᵢ = 400 ± 140#, 700^ / IC₅₀ = 1.47 ± 0.21*, 0.75^ | α4β2: IC₅₀ = 6.3 ± 1.3, >20^; α7: IC₅₀ = 34.7 ± 5.0* | Kᵢ = 5.1 ± 0.50 (KOR)#; 1.1 ± 0.30 (MOR)#; 3.5 ± 0.05 (DOR)#; 3.8 ± 0.067 (5-HT₃)#; 32 ± 3 (M1)#; 13 ± 1.2 (σ₂)#; 6.4 ± 0.68 (Na⁺ channel)# / IC₅₀ > 50 (hERG)^ | 2, 19, 21, 57, 163–165 |
| **Channel Blocker** | | | | |
| **(±)-mecamylamine** | Kᵢ = 600 / IC₅₀ = 1.1 ± 0.1^ | α4β2: Kᵢ = 2500; α7: Kᵢ = 6900 | | 68, 75, 157, 163–165 |
| **α-Conotoxins** | | | | |
| **AuIB** | IC₅₀ = 0.770^ | α3β2: IC₅₀ > 100^; α7: IC₅₀ > 100^; α4β2: IC₅₀ > 100^ | | 117, 118 |
| **TxID** | IC₅₀ = 0.0125^ | α6/α3β4: IC₅₀ = 0.094^; α2β4: IC₅₀ = 4.55^; α4β2: IC₅₀ > 100^ | | 120 |
| **RegIIA** | IC₅₀ = 0.097^ | α3β2: IC₅₀ = 0.033^; α7: IC₅₀ = 0.103^; α4β2: IC₅₀ > 100^ | | 123 |
| **[S⁹A]TxID** | IC₅₀ = 0.0039^ | α6/α3β4: IC₅₀ = 0.178 | | 130 |
| **[S⁹K]TxID** | IC₅₀ = 0.0069^ | α6/α3β4: IC₅₀ > 100 | | 131 |
| **[R¹⁰F][N¹²L]LsIA** | IC₅₀ = 0.41 ± 0.02* | α7: IC₅₀ > 100* | | 124 |
| **TP-2212-59** | IC₅₀ = 0.0023* | α4β2: IC₅₀ > 100* | | 132 |
| **Azabicyclic Partial Agonists** | | | | |
| **AT-1001** | Kᵢ = 2.64 ± 0.24* / IC₅₀ = 0.03 ± 0.01 | α4β2: Kᵢ = 476.52 ± 98.75 / IC₅₀ = 0.30 ± 0.20; α7: Kᵢ = 221.72 ± 9.88* | IC₅₀ = 0.6 (5-HT₃); 0.201 (H1); 0.661 (M4); 0.325 (M5); 0.418 (σ₂); 0.084 (σ₁) | 145, 147 |
| **PF-4575180** | Kᵢ = 4.2 ± 0.9# / IC₅₀ = 0.112 ± 25* | α4β2: Kᵢ > 1195 ± 475# / IC₅₀ = 0.73 ± 0.20* | | 153 |
| **CP-601932** | Kᵢ = 21 ± 28# / IC₅₀ = 0.26 ± 0.04* | α4β2: Kᵢ = 21 ± 19# / IC₅₀ = 0.11 ± 0.02* | | 155 |

18-MC lacks the tremors and neurotoxicity associated with ibogaine. Whereas ibogaine induces whole-body tremors at doses as low as 20 mg/kg, rats treated with a high dose of 18-MC (100 mg/kg) displayed no apparent tremoring. Histologically prepared brains of rats that received up to three 100 mg/kg doses of 18-MC were identical to those of naive or saline-dosed rats, suggesting that 18-MC does not cause Purkinje cell degeneration, a hallmark of neurotoxicity.  This difference in side effect profile between 18-MC and ibogaine is generally attributed to the latter’s promiscuous binding to multiple CNS receptors. Ibogaine and its active metabolite noribogaine have low micromolar affinities for several CNS receptors, including nAChRs, opioid receptors, NMDA receptors, σ₂ receptors, muscarinic (M1 and M2) receptors, 5-HT$_3$ receptors, sodium channels, σ₂ sites, and the serotonin transporter (**Table 1**). In support of this notion that polypharmacology produces side effects, 18-MC binds more selectively to the α3β4 nAChRs than ibogaine.  Nevertheless, a receptor screen conducted via radioligand binding assays revealed that 18-MC retains significant affinity for many of these targets (**Table 1**). Increased target selectivity is likely necessary to lessen the remaining side effects of motor function depression and sedation exhibited in rodent models of 18-MC.

Experimental and computational methods have been used to propose a binding site for 18-MC and ibogaine on α3β4 nAChRs. In PC12 cells that express α3β4 nAChRs, the inhibition of channel opening by ibogaine is not overcome by increasing concentrations of nicotine, indicating ibogaine likely does not bind to the orthosteric site.  Similar non-competitive inhibition has been observed for 18-MC in TE671 cells that express muscle-type nAChRs. In HEK293 cells expressing α3β4 nAChRs, ibogaine and 18-MC inhibit acetylcholine-evoked responses with similar potencies (**Table 1**), and the concentration-response relationships have a Hill slope near unity, suggesting a single site of action. Data from radioligand binding experiments with [³H]ibogaine further support a single binding site and that ibogaine dissociates faster from the closed state of the receptor compared to the desensitized state. Although experimental evidence to discern this binding site is lacking, docking and molecular dynamic simulations have proposed several binding sites within the channel pore for 18-MC and ibogaine.  These computational methods suggest 18-MC and ibogaine binding are driven through van der Waals interactions with hydrophobic residues and π−π stacking interactions with Phe255 of the β4 subunit.

18-MC has demonstrated efficacy in decreasing self-administration in various rodent models of drug abuse. 18-MC dose-dependently (10-40 mg/kg i.p. and p.o.) decreased morphine self-administration in rats for at least 1 day and up to 3 weeks following treatment. In a strain of selectively bred alcohol-preferring rats, 18-MC (5-40 mg/kg i.p. and p.o.) significantly reduced alcohol drinking in a dose-dependent manner. In line with these results, 30 mg/kg 18-MC decreased binge-like ethanol consumption in mice, as determined in the drinking-in-the-dark paradigm.

18-MC is similarly effective in preventing stimulant use in rodents. 18-MC (10-40 mg/kg i.p. and 5-40 mg/kg p.o.) significantly reduced nicotine self-administration in rats in a dose-dependent manner. When administered p.o., this effect persisted for over 24 h.  Rats treated with 18-MC (2-40 mg/kg i.p.) substantially decreased nicotine self-administration, even at the lowest dose of test compound. Although less effective than with other drugs of abuse, 18-MC also decreases methamphetamine self-administration; 18-MC (40 mg/kg i.v.) reduced methamphetamine self-administration to 40% of baseline. Similarly, 18-MC (10-40 mg/kg i.p.) decreased cocaine self-administration in rats, with the highest dose depressing intake up to 3 weeks. The same doses also attenuated cocaine craving in rats, as determined through a cue-induced reinstatement model.

Several self-administration studies delivering 18-MC to specific brain regions have provided strong evidence that the observed efficacy in these animal models of SUDs stems from α3β4 antagonism. Administering 18-MC directly into either the MHb or the IPN, areas containing high densities of α3β4 nAChRs, decreased morphine and methamphetamine self-administration in rats. Conversely, administration of 18-MC into the VTA, an area of the brain lacking α3β4 but classically associated with drugs of abuse, had no effect on the self-administration of either drug.  These data are consistent with a mechanism of action mediated by antagonism of α3β4 nAChRs in the MHb-IPN pathway. The non-selective nAChR antagonist mecamylamine and α3β4-selective antagonist α-conotoxin AuIB showed comparable effects when applied locally to these three areas, further suggesting that 18-MC's anti-addictive properties result from its antagonism of α3β4 nAChRs.

Although antagonism of the α3β4 nAChR does not fully explain the prolonged anti-addictive effects observed in many of the aforementioned studies, it nonetheless is the prevailing theory to explain the efficacy of 18-MC in animal models of SUDs. 18-MC’s long-lasting effects against multiple drugs of abuse have provided strong support for the α3β4 nAChR as a target for the treatment of SUDs and a considerable improvement over ibogaine with regard to adverse effects, toxicity, and selectivity. Nevertheless, 18-MC is only a modestly potent and selective α3β4 nAChR antagonist. According to Glick et al., 18-MC has >20-fold greater affinity for α3β4 over α4β2; however, Arias et al. have reported a more modest 4-fold selectivity.  Furthermore, as discussed above, 18-MC also has considerable affinity for μ, δ, and κ opioid receptors. Since opioid receptors have a well-established role in SUDs, 18-MC’s affinities for all three opioid receptors may contribute to its mechanism of action.

Despite its moderate α3β4 potency and selectivity, clinical trials have been initiated for 18-MC. In early 2022, the biopharmaceutical company MindMed reported the completion of a Phase 1 clinical trial where 18-MC was shown to be well tolerated at doses up to 500 mg/day in Single Ascending Dose and 60 mg/day in Multiple Ascending Dose. Initially, MindMed had announced plans to begin a Phase 2a proof-of-concept study for the treatment of opioid use disorder based on these encouraging results but has recently shelved the development of 18-MC.  Nevertheless, these Phase 1 results do indicate that α3β4 nAChRs could be safely inhibited, suggesting more selective α3β4 ligands will also be well tolerated.

### MECAMYLAMINE

Mecamylamine (MEC) was initially introduced to the United States by Merck as Inversine in the 1950s (**Figure 3**). It was among the first orally active medications available for the management of hypertension. Following the development of new classes of anti-hypertensive drugs with greater efficacy and more favorable side effect profiles, MEC fell out of favor in clinical applications.  However, it remains a widely used research tool for studying the pharmacology of nAChRs.

MEC is a non-competitive and non-selective inhibitor of all known nAChRs subtypes.  MEC’s inhibition of the nAChRs is voltage-dependent, a phenomenon that is typically observed with compounds that interact within the voltage field of other ion channels. In competitive radioligand binding studies, phencyclidine and verapamil, which bind to pores of NMDA and calcium channels, respectively, exhibit affinity for the [³H]-MEC site.  Additionally, [³H]-MEC binding to nAChRs increases in the presence of the channel-opening agonist nicotine. Similarly, the binding of MEC to the channel pore of muscle nAChRs induces a conformational change that prevents the release of MEC that can only be reversed by the reopening of the channel by an agonist.  Taken together, these lines of evidence indicate that MEC is an open channel blocker. That is, it exerts its inhibitory action on the nAChRs by binding to the pore of the open channel, which prevents the flow of ions.

**Figure 3. Mecamylamine enantiomers.**

* *R*-(-)-mecamylamine
* *S*-(+)-mecamylamine

Although Inversine contains racemic MEC, examination of the pharmacological properties of the individual enantiomers of MEC began shortly after the racemate was developed. Though initial research suggested there is no difference in the enantiomers' affinity or inhibitory potency at nAChRs, later reports have observed some differences. Specifically, (+)-MEC dissociates more slowly from α4β2 and α3β4 receptors than (−)-MEC. *In vivo*, (+)-MEC produces more robust anti-depressant and anxiolytic activity.

In animal models of drug abuse, MEC has proven effective at decreasing drug-seeking behavior for several drugs of abuse. As described above, MEC decreases the self-administration of methamphetamine in rats when directly administered to the MHb or IPN. Despite MEC’s activity at all nAChR subtypes, these effects are likely the result of inhibition of α3β4 nAChRs, since this is the predominant subtype in these brain regions. Numerous studies have also demonstrated that systemic administration of MEC (0.5-3 mg/kg s.c. or 0.3-3 mg/kg i.p.) to rats and mice dose-dependently decreases nicotine self-administration. These effects were also observed in non-human mammals, where MEC pre-treatment decreased nicotine self-administration in beagles (1 mg/kg i.v.) and squirrel monkeys (1 mg/kg i.m.).  A limited number of studies examining other drugs of abuse have demonstrated similar results. Pre-treatment with MEC produces a dose-dependent depression of cocaine self-administration (0.3-3 mg/kg i.p. or 1-4 mg/kg s.c.) and ethanol drinking (0.5-8 mg/kg i.p. or 0.5-2 mg/kg s.c.) in rats and mice.

Corroborating the results of animal models, MEC has been examined clinically, where it was shown to successfully decrease nicotine and alcohol use.  Due to its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), MEC inhibits neuronal nAChRs at lower doses (2.5-15 mg/day) than those used to treat hypertension (25-80 mg/day). Initial doses of 5-10 mg/day, increasing over 3 weeks, were 50% successful in withdrawing treatment-resistant smokers from nicotine.  In another trial, smokers received an intervention of a nicotine skin patch plus MEC (2.5-5 mg BID) or placebo. The continuous abstinence rate was 3 times higher in the MEC condition, and MEC significantly reduced self-reported cravings for cigarettes. Similarly, MEC (7.5-15 mg/day) was self-reported to decrease the rewarding and euphoric effects of alcohol, as well as the desire to consume alcohol. However, the higher dosages used in these studies led to constipation, urinary retention, and abdominal cramps.

In summary, due to MEC’s inhibitory effect on multiple nAChR subtypes, it may have efficacy in treating several CNS conditions, including SUDs. However, the unfavorable side effects that have caused its use as an anti-hypertensive agent to diminish will also likely make it an unattractive treatment for SUDs. MEC’s unselective inhibition of all known nAChR subtypes, both neuronal and muscular, and off-target effects cause constipation, urinary retention, abdominal cramps, and dry mouth and skin.  Nevertheless, it remains an invaluable tool for studying the physiological roles of nAChRs. Moreover, the successful application of MEC in pre-clinical and clinical investigations has aided in establishing the nAChRs, particularly the α3β4 subtype, as promising targets for the treatment of SUDs.

### α-CONOTOXINS

Around 750 species of cone snail from the genus *Conus* have been identified, all of which hunt their prey using a wide range of specialized peptide-based neuropharmacological venoms.  These small disulfide-constrained peptides, known as conotoxins, are present and conserved in all phylogenetic clades of *Conus*. Divided into at least 16 genetically distinct superfamilies categorized by their cysteine framework, these peptides are further divided into families by their target, either voltage- or ligand-gated ion channels.  Though fewer than 1% of estimated *Conus* peptides have been sequenced and investigated, those that have been studied typically display extraordinary target specificity. Researchers have exploited conotoxins' ability to differentiate between homologous channels to identify and define novel receptors within large ion channel families, including the functions of specific subtypes. While it may seem counterintuitive to treat diseases with toxins, the high specificity of the conotoxins has made them ideal pharmacological tools for studying the physiological function of certain ion channels, including the nAChRs.

Nearly all nAChR-targeting conotoxins fall into the -conotoxin family, the largest group of conotoxins characterized thus far.  Among the smallest conotoxins, they contain only 12-20 amino acid residues. The -conotoxins' cysteine framework consists of four cysteines in a C sequence, where m and n refer to amino acid loops of varying size.  The four cysteine residues form two disulfide bonds, resulting in three distinct isomers with significantly different activities. Native -conotoxins typically adopt the more active globular isomer, with disulfide bonds between C and C$^{II}^{IV}^4$ and Pro$^6$ residues in the m loop are believed to orient the peptide toward the nAChR orthosteric binding pocket, while a more variable n loop dictates subtype selectivity.

**Figure 4. Amino acid sequence and IC₅₀ values of natural and synthetic α3β4-selective α-conotoxins.**

**Sequence Data & IC₅₀ values:**

| Peptide | Sequence | α3β4 IC₅₀ (nM) | α6/α3β4 IC₅₀ (nM) | α7 IC₅₀ (nM) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **LsIA** | S G C C S N P A C R V N N P N I C | -- | >10 |  |
| **[N12L]LsIA** | S G C C S N P A C R V **L** N P N I C | 630 | 2570 |  |
| **[R10M]LsIA** | S G C C S N P A C **M** V N N P N I C | 440 | 242 |  |
| **[R10F][N12L]LsIA** | S G C C S N P A C **F** V **L** N P N I C | 410 | >1000 |  |
| **TxID** | G C C S H P V C S A M S P I C | 12.5 |  | 94 |
| **[S9A]TxID** | G C C S H P V C **A** A M S P I C | 3.9 |  | 178.1 |
| **[S9K]TxID** | G C C S H P V C **K** A M S P I C | 6.9 |  | >1000 |
| **AuIB** | G C C S Y P P C F A T N P D C | 770 |  |  |
| **BuIA** | G C C S T P P C A V L Y C | 27.7 |  |  |
| **TP-2212-59** | G C C S H P B C F B Z Y C | 2.3 |  |  |
| *Note: Sequences show standard amino acid codes. Disulfide bridges connect Cys residues.* |  |  |  |  |

In 1998, the McIntosh group isolated the first α3β4-selective α-conotoxin, AuIB, from *Conus aulicus* (**Figure 4**).  In its native globular conformation, AuIB potently antagonizes the α3β4 subtype, while very weakly inhibiting the α4β2 subtype. At the time, this high subtype selectivity made it unique among other α-conotoxins identified. To understand this subtype selectivity, Grishin et al. developed a homology model of AuIB bound to the orthosteric site of the α3β4 nAChR based on a crystal structure of a PnIA, a different α-conotoxin, bound to the AChBP from *Aplysia californica*.  This model suggested the N-terminus of AuIB forms a salt bridge with the Asp172 of the β4 side chain. Additionally, the Phe9 of AuIB was proposed to interact with a two-residue binding pocket on the α3β4 nAChR subunit through π−π stacking, indicating it may be responsible for the observed subtype selectivity. Providing further evidence for this AuIB binding site, mutating Trp59 and Lys61 from the orthosteric site of the α3 subunit abolished AuIB inhibitory activity, suggesting these residues are necessary for its binding. Despite these results suggesting AuIB binds to the orthosteric site, some studies have shown that other α-conotoxins produce non-competitive antagonism of nAChRs.

Since the discovery of AuIB, there has been a continued search for other α-conotoxins that inhibit α3β4 with greater potency. In 2013, TxID, isolated from *Conus textile*, was identified as an α3β4 antagonist 60 times more potent than AuIB (**Figure 4**).  Because it has the same Ser⁴ and Pro⁶ region found in many other α-conotoxin m loops, the observed increase in potency is believed to be due to unique residues in the n loop. TxID also inhibits the related α6/α3β4 nAChR subtype, albeit less potently, and weakly blocks α7.  In addition to TxID, several other α-conotoxins that inhibit α3β4 also target other nAChR subtypes. RegIIA, identified by the Marí group, is an α-conotoxin isolated from *Conus textile regius* and another potent α3β4 nAChR antagonist. Although RegIIA also has activity at the α7 and α3β2 subtypes, unlike some other α-conotoxins, RegIIA does not affect GABA$_B$-mediated signaling. Other α-conotoxins, including Vc1.1, BuIA, PeIA, PIA, GIC, and LvIA, weakly antagonize α3β4 nAChRs but show more potent activity at other nAChR subtypes.

Due to their modular, peptidic nature, several studies have examined how changes to the peptidic sequence of the α-conotoxins impact their potency and selectivity for the α3β4 nAChRs. In its native form, the α-conotoxin LsIA only differs from the majority of α3β4-active α-conotoxins by four residues, yet it is inactive at α3β4. Abraham et al. developed analogues of LsIA to further understand the minimum structural requirements for α-conotoxin activity at human α3β4 (**Figure 4**).  Guided by homology models generated using a co-crystal structure between LsIA and the *Lymnea stagnalis* AChBP, substitutions at LsIA Arg10 resulted in a salt bridge and cation−π interactions with Lys57 on the β4 subunit of the α3β4 nAChR, while substitutions at LsIA Asn12 introduced interactions with Ile77 and Ile109 at a hydrophobic patch on β4. Together, these changes resulted in α3β4 nAChR activity. Most notably, the [R10M]LsIA and [N12L]LsIA analogues inhibited the α3β4 nAChR 5- and 40-fold more potently than the α6/α3β4 nAChR subtype, respectively. These simple modifications to the LsIA sequence suggest that interactions between the α-conotoxins and the Lys61, Ile81, and Ile113 triad on the β4 subunit form the minimum pharmacophore required for α3β4 inhibition. To support this, an [R10F][N12L]LsIA double mutant showed no activity at α6/α3β4 up to 100 μM and an improved IC₅₀ at α3β4.

In a separate study, the Luo group used positional alanine scanning and site-directed mutagenesis to identify five key residues in TxID necessary for both α3β4 and α6/α3β4 inhibition: His5, Pro6, Val7, Met11, and Pro13. Substituting an alanine for Ser9 revealed an [S9A]TxID analogue with 46-fold improved selectivity between α3β4 and α6/α3β4 subtypes (**Figure 4**). Additional single amino acid substitution at that position resulted in an [S9K]TxID analogue with complete selectivity for the α3β4 nAChR.  Inspired by a different α-conotoxin, the Armishaw group systematically modified key amino acid residues in the m and n loop framework of BuIA, creating a positional scanning library of analogues. This library consisted of 132 mixture samples, each containing 5,153,632 compounds across six sub-libraries, for a total of 113,379,904 possible individual amino acid combinations.  Through two rounds of library generation, they determined which amino acids within the n loop were most involved in α3β4. Of their leads, TP-2212-59 was found to be the most potent antagonist, competitively inhibiting only α3β4 nAChRs (**Figure 4**). Currently, [S9K]TxID and TP-2212-59 are the most selective and potent α3β4-targeting α-conotoxins reported to date, respectively.

As α-conotoxins are some of the most selective α3β4 nAChR antagonists identified, they have been used extensively to study the role of these receptors in modulating the effects of drugs of abuse. As the first α3β4-targeting α-conotoxin identified, the majority of these studies have employed AuIB. In acute nicotine administration, pre-treatment with AuIB by direct administration into the MHb of rats prevented nicotine-induced increases in extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. Additionally, direct infusion to the MHb, BLA, or dorsolateral tegmentum (DLT) (25 pmol i.c.v.) decreased nicotine self-administration.  AuIB also prevented the expression of nicotine-conditioned place preference (CPP) and decreased nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Like AuIB, pre-treatment with TxID (0.2-5 nmol i.c.v.) and its more α3β4-selective analogue, [S9K]TxID (0.2-5 nmol i.c.v.), also significantly attenuated the expression and reinstatement of nicotine CPP in mice, further suggesting the importance of the α3β4 nAChR in the rewarding effects of nicotine.  However, when AuIB was infused into the IPN of rats, increased levels of self-administered nicotine were observed. Similar results were seen when 18-MC was locally administered into the IPN.  These *in vivo* studies indicate that α3β4 has multiple roles in both the addictive and adverse properties of nicotine.

α-Conotoxins are also gradually being applied to other models of substance abuse. For example, similar infusion studies were done with AuIB in rats to investigate the role of α3β4 in methamphetamine SUD. When administered to either the IPN or MHb (25 pmol i.c.v.), it decreased methamphetamine self-administration, while not altering response to the sucrose. Interestingly, when delivered to the BLA, self-administration of both methamphetamine and sucrose decreased. Additionally, when AuIB was administered intracerebrally in mice chronically treated with morphine, physical withdrawal symptoms decreased, indicating that α3β4 is involved in the mechanisms of opioid withdrawal. Local infusion of AuIB in the MHb and IPN also had results comparable to those of mecamylamine in decreasing morphine self-administration. AuIB has also been applied to THC studies, where repeated THC doses were followed by AuIB (1.75-7 pmol i.c.v.), then challenged by rimonabant, a selective CB1 receptor antagonist.  AuIB dose-dependently reduced signs of withdrawal caused by rimonabant, but gave no effect without the challenge. Taken together, the binding specificity of AuIB and its ability to modulate the effects of a variety of drugs of abuse indicate the importance of the α3β4 nAChR in addiction.

As is the case for many peptide-based drugs, the pharmacokinetics of the α-conotoxins represent a significant hurdle to their therapeutic development. Most notably, disulfide scrambling can change the bioactive conformation of the α-conotoxins and decrease their activity. To mitigate this problem, the Alewood group replaced cysteine with selenocysteine in a variety of α-conotoxins, including α3β4-active AuIB, BuIA, and Vc1.1, forming isosteric and non-reducible diselenide bonds.  Scrambling was successfully prevented in these α-conotoxin analogues, even with just one diselenide bond, resulting in a 10-fold increase in potency compared to their native counterparts. Despite this, the analogues maintained a similar *in vivo* half-life compared to the parent compound, suggesting degradation of these peptides also occurs through other, likely enzymatic, pathways. Additionally, α-conotoxins are also limited by their poor permeability across the BBB to reach α3β4 nAChRs in the CNS. Although previous *in vivo* studies have bypassed this issue using intracerebroventricular or direct infusions into specific brain regions, the necessity to use similar routes of administration in the clinic represents a significant challenge to developing an α-conotoxin-based treatment for SUDs.

### AZABICYCLIC PARTIAL AGONISTS

The effects of the naturally occurring α3β4 nAChR inhibitors and existing nAChR channel blockers in animal models of SUDs have also prompted drug discovery campaigns targeting α3β4 nAChRs. Ultimately, these efforts led to the discovery of the azabicyclic small molecules represented by AT-1001 (Astraea Therapeutics), PF-4575180 (Pfizer), and CP-601932 (Pfizer). Notably, these molecules differ from other α3β4 ligands in that they produce partial activation of the receptors. Two azabicyclic α3β4 partial agonists have been investigated clinically, with one completing a clinical study (CP-601932) and the other (from Astraea Therapeutics) currently involved in a clinical study.  The data generated by these azabicyclic small molecules indicate partial activation of the α3β4 nAChR as a viable mechanism for treating SUDs.

**AT-1001.** The development of AT-1001 began in 2010 with the discovery of SR16584, which was identified as an α3β4 selective ligand (**Figure 5**).  Interestingly, this same scaffold is present in granisetron, an antagonist of 5-HT₃ which is also a member of the Cys-loop family of ligand-gated ion channels. SR16584 has an affinity similar to that of nicotine at the α3β4 nAChR but lacks affinity for the α4β2 or α7 subtypes.  Structure-activity relationship studies revealed that larger bicyclic rings led to increased selectivity at the α3β4 nAChR, suggesting the orthosteric binding site in α3β4 was larger than in other nAChR subtypes. Indeed, this was later confirmed when a structure of the α3β4 nAChR was solved by cryogenic electron microscopy. Additionally, replacement of the dihydroindolin-2-one in SR16584 with a 2-bromophenyl led to the discovery of AT-1001, a high-affinity α3β4 ligand with impressive subtype selectivity. Moreover, a screen of 48 CNS receptors identified interactions with only six non-nAChR receptor targets with binding affinities below 1 μM (**Table 1**).  Comparatively, AT-1001 possesses 20 times greater affinity for α3β4 nAChR than these other CNS receptors. The high selectivity of this scaffold for the α3β4 nAChRs is also reflected *in vivo*; [¹²⁵I]AT-1012, an iodine-containing derivative of AT-1001, traced drug localization in the CNS heavily to the MHb, IPN, FR, and pineal gland, which are structures known to contain high concentrations of α3β4 nAChRs (**Figure 5**).

**Figure 5. Azabicyclic compounds SR16584, AT-1001, and AT-1012.**

* **SR16584**: Contains dihydroindolin-2-one fused to azabicyclic ring.
* **AT-1001**: Contains 2-bromophenyl amine attached to azabicyclic ring.
* **AT-1012**: Iodine-125 analogue of AT-1001 for radiolabeling.

SR16584 and AT-1001 were initially characterized as potent α3β4 antagonists based on their ability to inhibit epibatidine-induced activation of the receptors. In Scatchard analyses, SR16584 and AT-1001 both produced changes in epibatidine B_max and K_d suggesting they bind non-competitively with epibatidine (i.e., binding outside the orthosteric binding site).  In a calcium flux assay, increasing concentrations of AT-1001 similarly lowered epibatidine’s E_max rather than producing a parallel shift in epibatidine dose-response curves, as would be expected for a non-competitive antagonist. Despite these initial results, later studies revealed that AT-1001 actually induces rapid, but partial, activation of the receptor and stabilizes the desensitized state, which ultimately inhibits the receptor from being activated by other agonists like epibatidine or acetylcholine. Moreover, a recent cryo-electron microscopy structure of AT-1001 bound to the desensitized state of the α3β4 receptor provides definitive evidence that it binds to the orthosteric site; clear electron density corresponding to AT-1001 is observed at both of the α3(+)/β4(−) interfaces.  Like nicotine, the AT-1001 cationic nitrogen forms a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl of W149 and cation−π interactions with the aromatic box motif. These residues are highly conserved within the orthosteric site of all nAChR subtypes, and similar interactions are observed with other agonists at α4β2 and α7 nAChRs. Interestingly, a recent study using fluorinated, non-canonical amino acid incorporation suggests that these hydrogen-bond and cation−π interactions are weaker in AT-1001 compared to other nAChR agonists such as cytisine and acetylcholine.  To explain the high subtype selectivity of AT-1001, Hibbs and co-workers compared the binding pockets of the α3β4 and α4β2 nAChRs, found that the α3β4 site is slightly larger, and proposed that steric interactions from the bromine in AT-1001 hinder its binding to α4β2. Single-site mutagenesis by Knox et al. revealed two amino acids to be particularly important for dictating this subtype selectivity. They found mutating Leu121 in β4 to phenylalanine present in β2 led to a 3-fold loss in potency, likely due to steric clash between the bromine atom and the large phenylalanine side chain.  Decreasing the steric bulk in the binding site by mutating Ile113 to the smaller valine found in β2 also led to a decrease in potency, indicating that AT-1001 forms important hydrophobic interactions with the complementary face of the binding site. Taken together, these structural biology and mutagenesis studies highlight how even subtle changes in the highly conserved orthosteric binding site might be exploited to create highly subtype-selective ligands.

Although AT-1001 is a partial agonist, it produces effects similar to those of α3β4 nAChR antagonists in animal models of SUDs. In rats, AT-1001 (0.1-10 mg/kg s.c.) significantly and dose-dependently reduced nicotine self-administration. AT-1001 (0.75-3 mg/kg s.c.) also prevented nicotine reinstatement invoked by nicotine, varenicline, and the chemical stressor yohimbine.  AT-1001 (1-10 mg/kg s.c.) decreased CPP and behavioral sensitization to cocaine (5 mg/kg s.c.). In addition to its effects on stimulants, AT-1001 also has been shown to modulate alcohol drinking in rats; AT-1001 (3 mg/kg s.c.) treatment results in a significant reduction in alcohol consumption.  However, at this dose, AT-1001 also produced a decrease in food self-administration. A lower dose of AT-1001 (1.5 mg/kg s.c.) that did not reduce food intake eliminated alcohol self-administration induced by the chemical stressor yohimbine. This effect appears to be limited to stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking, since AT-1001 had no effect on cue-induced (light and odor) reinstatement of alcohol. This same study also demonstrated that, when nicotine and alcohol are operantly co-administered, AT-1001 (1.5 mg/kg s.c.) does not decrease alcohol self-administration but significantly decreases nicotine self-administration.  This inability to reduce ethanol self-administration in the presence of nicotine may suggest the need for further testing in modes for polysubstance use disorder.

In addition to modulating the rewarding effects of nicotine, cocaine, and alcohol, AT-1001 has also been shown to decrease withdrawal symptoms of THC and opioids. In a study examining naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal in rats, AT-1001 (1-3 mg/kg i.c.v.) pre-administration significantly decreased somatic symptoms of withdrawal (paw tremors, head shaking, backing, ptosis, writhing, jumping, body tremor, diarrhea occurrence). Similarly, AT-1001 was able to decrease rimonabant-induced THC withdrawal (0.3 and 3 mg/kg i.p.).  The ability of AT-1001 to attenuate symptoms of withdrawal highlights the potential of α3β4 nAChR as a target to treat SUDs, as reduction of withdrawal symptoms would be expected to reduce rates of relapse in patients. Based on these promising results observed with AT-1001, Astraea Therapeutics has recently advanced an α3β4 nAChR partial agonist, AT-1082, into clinical trials as a novel smoking cessation agent.

**PF-4575180 and CP-601932.** Concurrent with the discovery of AT-1001, Pfizer developed two potent α3β4 nAChR partial agonists, PF-4575180 and CP-601932 (**Figure 6**).  Both molecules are structurally related to the FDA-approved smoking cessation drug varenicline, which in turn was derived from the alkaloid cytisine (**Figure 6**). Notably, while varenicline has a strong preference for the α4β2 subtype, it does possess significant affinity for the α3β4 subtype that may contribute to its mechanism of action. The success of varenicline, both in the clinic and as a tool for studying nAChR pharmacology, prompted further exploration of the scaffold in hopes of discovering other subtype-specific ligands. Compared to varenicline, CP-601932 has increased α3β4 nAChR affinity, reduced α4β2 affinity, and no α4β2 nAChR intrinsic activity.  Calcium flux assays identified CP-601932 as a partial agonist at the α3β4 nAChR, and, like AT-1001 and PF-4575180, it is thought to stabilize the desensitized state of the α3β4 nAChR. Additional pursuits to discover subtype-selective nAChR ligands resulted in PF-4575180. PF-4575180 replaced the fused heterocycle found in varenicline or CP-601932 with an *ortho*-substituted-phenyl group appended to the azabicyclic ring system through an ether linkage.  PF-4575180 possesses greater affinity, increased intrinsic activity, and more potent antagonism at the α3β4 nAChR than CP-601932, with no significant affinity or activity at α4β2.

**Figure 6. Azabicyclic compounds cytisine, varenicline, PF-4575180, and CP-601932.**

* **Cytisine** -> **Varenicline**
* **PF-4575180**: Structure containing azabicyclic ring ether linked to ortho-fluoro phenyl pyridine.
* **CP-601932**: Structure containing azabicyclic ring fused to phenyl-CF3 group.

So far, CP-601932 and PF-4575180 have only been investigated in animal models of alcohol use disorder, where they were effective at reducing alcohol-seeking behavior. CP-601932 and PF-4575180 (10 mg/kg s.c.) observed a significant reduction in rat ethanol intake in both operant conditioning and intermittent two-bottle choice paradigms.  Interestingly, at doses that were effective at reducing drinking, the unbound brain concentrations of CP-601932 and PF-4575180 correlated to *in vitro* concentrations that would inhibit most α3β4 nAChRs while leaving some persistently activated, highlighting the differences between partial agonists and antagonists. However, it is unclear how or whether persistent activation of α3β4 nAChRs will influence the effectiveness of treating SUDs.

In addition to these pre-clinical results for alcohol use disorders, CP-601932 has been investigated in the clinic as a smoking cessation therapy: in Phase 2 clinical trials, it was equal to or less effective than nicotine replacement therapy, cytisine, or varenicline. Together, the results from AT-1001, PF4575180, and CP-601932 indicate that α3β4 nAChR partial agonists perform similarly to α3β4 antagonists in animal models of SUD. This, in turn, suggests that by stabilizing the desensitized state of the receptor, these partial agonists act as functional antagonists *in vivo* by blocking the activation of the receptor by endogenous acetylcholine.

### SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK FOR α3β4 INHIBITORS

When ibogaine made its way from relative obscurity around the middle of the 20th century, it set in motion an entire area of research. The early anecdotal reports of ibogaine’s ability to interrupt the addictive properties of numerous drugs of abuse sparked initial efforts to recapitulate these effects in laboratory models of SUDs and to search for derivatives with improved side effect profiles. This approach—human studies before animal models and compound optimization—runs counter to most modern drug discovery workflows, but it is not uncommon in the discovery of medically useful natural products. Indeed, some of the most widely used natural product-derived drugs, like morphine, were in use long before their biological targets were identified. Natural products have historically served as important chemical and pharmacological probes for revealing potential drug targets and biological pathways for additional drug discovery efforts.  Ibogaine, it seems, follows this tradition. However, despite ibogaine and 18-MC being effective in numerous animal models of SUDs, their affinity for multiple CNS receptors, including those that have been implicated in drug abuse (e.g., κ opioid receptor), makes it difficult to assign this anti-addictive phenotype to a single target. Nevertheless, without the discovery of 18-MC and its ability to inhibit α3β4 nAChRs, one questions whether the role of α3β4 nAChRs in modulating the effects of drugs of abuse would have ever been fully appreciated.

In the decades since α3β4 nAChR was implicated in 18-MC’s mechanism of action, additional α3β4 targeting compounds have been discovered. Each of these drug classes has proven quite effective at modulating the effects of nearly every drug of abuse in rodents, strongly supporting α3β4 nAChRs as a bona fide target for the treatment of SUDs. Despite the abundance of data from animal models, only ibogaine and mecamylamine have been clinically investigated. As we have detailed above, each of the existing classes of α3β4 nAChR inhibitors possesses unique limitations that stand as translational hurdles. From these compounds, we conclude that the optimal α3β4-based therapy for SUDs should have:

1. High potency for antagonizing the α3β4 nAChR;
2. Limited affinity for other nAChR subtypes and off-target receptors;
3. The ability to cross the blood-brain barrier with limited efflux;
4. Prolonged plasma and metabolic stability;
5. Ideally, high oral bioavailability.

With a cryo-EM structure of the α3β4 nAChR now available, the development of the next generation of α3β4 targeting compounds that meet these criteria will likely benefit greatly from structure-based design approaches. These approaches, of course, require a clearly defined binding site. And while computational studies have been used to propose binding sites for α3β4 ligands, experimental evidence from mutated receptors and the incorporation of non-natural amino acids has proven considerably more useful in defining the ligand-receptor interactions that dictate ligand binding.  In addition to developing the existing classes of α3β4 nAChR inhibitors, it is also important to continue to identify and explore new chemotypes that target these receptors. Given that Most α3β4-targeting compounds are derived from alkaloids (e.g., ibogaine, cytisine) or naturally occurring peptide toxins, natural products are likely to be a fruitful source of new compounds. Indeed, the recent discovery of several natural products, including the Aristotelia alkaloids, philanthotoxins, and ladybird alkaloids, with α3β4-subtype selectivity indicates that promising new classes of compounds ripe for further development may already exist.

The estimated 35 million people suffering from an SUD worldwide underscores the urgent need to develop medications for SUDs.  Even in the cases of nicotine-, alcohol-, and opioid-use disorders, where FDA-approved treatments exist, relapse rates remain high, patient compliance can be low, and drug-related deaths continue to rise. For other drugs of abuse, like cocaine and methamphetamine, there are no available pharmacotherapies, leaving millions of individuals without a medical treatment. Results from pre-clinical animal models and limited clinical data clearly suggest that α3β4 nAChR inhibitors hold promise to address this rising need. Furthermore, polysubstance abuse is prevalent; for example, in a recent survey of women who used opioids for non-medical purposes, 56.2% were cigarette smokers, 32.4% used marijuana, and 49.7% binge drank alcohol.  Because α3β4 inhibitors appear effective against multiple drugs of abuse, they may be uniquely suited to treat co-morbid SUDs. The α3β4 inhibitors discussed here—as well as future compounds developed with the lessons gleaned from them—represent promising opportunities to test this therapeutic hypothesis. Moreover, given the encouraging results with the first generations of α3β4 targeting compounds, continued drug discovery efforts on this target have the potential to provide a new and much-needed treatment option for SUDs.

---

### AUTHOR INFORMATION

**Corresponding Author**

* **Andrew P. Riley**: Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, United States; Email: apriley@uic.edu

**Authors**

* **Carolyn J. Straub**: Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, United States
* **Lisa E. Rusali**: Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, United States
* **Kyle M. Kremiller**: Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, United States

**Biographies**

* **Carolyn J. Straub** earned her B.A. in Chemistry from Roosevelt University in 2017. She is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Dr. Andrew Riley’s lab in UIC’s Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences.
* **Lisa E. Rusali** graduated from California State University, Long Beach, in 2020 with a B.S. in Molecular Cell Biology and Physiology and a minor in Chemistry. She is now a Ph.D. candidate and NCCIH T32 Predoctoral Fellow at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
* **Kyle M. Kremiller** graduated from Rutgers University Honors College, New Brunswick, in 2019 with a B.A. in Genetics. He is currently an M.D./Ph.D. candidate at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
* **Andrew P. Riley** is an assistant professor in the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He earned his bachelor’s degree from Ohio Wesleyan University and Ph.D. at the University of Kansas in 2015.

**Notes**
The authors declare no competing financial interest.

**ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**
The authors would like to thank Dr. Terry Moore for constructive and thoughtful feedback in preparation of this manuscript. The authors acknowledge the National Institute of General Medicine (R35GM147005) for generous financial support for this project. Additional support was provided by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002002 to A.P.R.) and the National Center for Complementary and Integrated Health (T32AT007533 to L.E.R.).

**ABBREVIATIONS USED**

* **18-MC**: 18-methoxycoronaridine
* **AChBP**: acetylcholine binding protein
* **BBB**: blood-brain barrier
* **BID**: twice per day
* **CNS**: central nervous system
* **CPP**: conditioned place preference
* **DA**: dopaminergic
* **i.c.v.**: intracerebroventricular
* **i.m.**: intramuscular
* **i.p.**: intraperitoneal
* **IPN**: interpeduncular nucleus
* **i.v.**: intravenous
* **MEC**: mecamylamine
* **MHb**: medial habenula
* **nAChR**: nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
* **s.c.**: subcutaneous
* **SUD**: substance use disorder
* **VTA**: ventral tegmental area

---

### REFERENCES

(1) Fernandez, J. W.; Fernandez, R. L. *Bwiti; An Ethnography of the Religious Imagination in Africa*; Princeton University Press, 1982.
(2) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, I. M. Development of Novel Medications for Drug Addiction: The Legacy of an African Shrub. *Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci.* 2000, 909, 88-103.
(3) Alper, K. R.; Lotsof, H. S.; Kaplan, C. D. The ibogaine medical subculture. *J. Ethnopharmacol.* 2008, 115, 9-24.
(4) Lotsof, H. S.; Alexander, N. E. Case studies of ibogaine treatment: implications for patient management strategies. *Alkaloids Chem. Biol.* 2001, 56, 293-313.
(5) Lotsof, H. S. United States Patent 4,499,096, 1985.
(6) Lotsof, H. S. United States Patent 5,026,697, 1991.
(7) Lotsof, H. S. United States Patent 4,857,523, 1989.
(8) Lotsof, H. S. United States Patent 4,587,243, 1986.
(9) Lotsof, H. S. United States Patent 5,124,994, 1992.
(10) Abrams, M. The Biology of...Addiction, May 1, 2003. [https://www.discovermagazine.com/mind/the-biology-of-addiction](https://www.discovermagazine.com/mind/the-biology-of-addiction)
(11) Glick, S. D.; Kuehne, M. E.; Raucci, J.; Wilson, T. E.; Larson, D.; Keller, R. W., Jr; Carlson, J. N. Effects of iboga alkaloids on morphine and cocaine self-administration in rats: relationship to tremorigenic effects and to effects on dopamine release in nucleus accumbens and striatum. *Brain Res.* 1994, 657, 14-22.
(12) Rezvani, A. H.; Overstreet, D. H.; Yang, Y.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Bandarage, U. K.; Kuehne, M. E.; Glick, S. D. Attenuation of Alcohol Consumption by a Novel Nontoxic Ibogaine Analogue (18-Methoxycoronaridine) in Alcohol-Preferring Rats. *Pharmacol, Biochem. Behav.* 1997, 58, 615-619.
(13) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, L. M.; Visker, K. E.; Fritz, K. A.; Bandarage, U. K.; Kuehne, M. E. 18-Methoxycoronardine attenuates nicotine-induced dopamine release and nicotine preferences in rats. *Psychopharmacology (Berl.)* 1998, 139, 274-280.
(14) Meisner, J. A.; Wilcox, S. R.; Richards, J. B. Ibogaine-associated cardiac arrest and death: case report and review of the literature. *Ther. Adv. Psychopharmacol.* 2016, 6, 95-98.
(15) Koenig, X.; Hilber, K. The Anti-Addiction Drug Ibogaine and the Heart: A Delicate Relation. *Molecules* 2015, 20, 2208-2228.
(16) Glick, S. D.; Kuehne, M. E.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Bandarage, U. K.; Molinari, H. H. 18-Methoxycoronaridine, a non-toxic iboga alkaloid congener: effects on morphine and cocaine self-administration and on mesolimbic dopamine release in rats. *Brain Res.* 1996, 719, 29-35.
(17) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, 1. M.; Hough, L. B.; Kuehne, M. E.; Bandarage, U. K. (±)-18-Methoxycoronaridine: A Novel Iboga Alkaloid Congener Having Potential Anti-Addictive Efficacy. *CNS Drug Rev.* 1999, 5, 27-42.
(18) Alper, K.; Bai, R.; Liu, N.; Fowler, S. J.; Huang, X.; Priori, S. G.; Ruan, Y. HERG Blockade by Iboga Alkaloids. *Cardiovascular Toxicology* 2016, 16, 14-22.
(19) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Szumlinski, K. K. 18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) and ibogaine: comparison of antiaddictive efficacy, toxicity, and mechanisms of action. *Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci.* 2000, 914, 369-386.
(20) Burckhardt, C. A.; Goutarel, R.; Janot, M. M.; Schlittler, E. Ibogamin, ein neues Alkaloid aus Tabernanthe Iboga Baillon. *Helvetica Chim. Acta* 1952, 35, 642-643.
(21) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Kitchen, B. A.; Fleck, M. W. Antagonism of a3B4 nicotinic receptors as a strategy to reduce opioid and stimulant self-administration. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2002, 438, 99-105.
(22) Kosten, T. R.; Kleber, H. D.; Morgan, C. Role of opioid antagonists in treating intravenous cocaine abuse. *Life Sci.* 1989, 44, 887-892.
(23) Taraschenko, O. D.; Panchal, V.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Glick, S. D. Is antagonism of a384 nicotinic receptors a strategy to reduce morphine dependence? *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2005, 513, 207-218.
(24) Pace, C. J.; Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, 1. M.; He, L.; Jokiel, P. A.; Kuehne, M. E.; Fleck, M. W. Novel iboga alkaloid congeners block nicotinic receptors and reduce drug self-administration. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2004, 492, 159-167.
(25) Rush, R.; Kuryatov, A.; Nelson, M. E.; Lindstrom, J. First and second transmembrane segments of alpha3, alpha4, beta2, and beta4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits influence the efficacy and potency of nicotine. *Mol. Pharmacol.* 2002, 61, 1416-1422.
(26) Luetje, C. W.; Patrick, J. Both alpha and beta-subunits contribute to the agonist sensitivity of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. *J. Neurosci.* 1991, 11, 837-845.
(27) Harvey, S. C.; Luetje, C. W. Determinants of Competitive Antagonist Sensitivity on Neuronal Nicotinic Receptor β Subunits. *J. Neurosci.* 1996, 16, 3798-3806.
(28) Kuryatov, A.; Olale, F. A.; Choi, C.; Lindstrom, J. Acetylcholine receptor extracellular domain determines sensitivity to nicotine-induced inactivation. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2000, 393, 11-21.
(29) Bertrand, D. Neuronal Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors and Epilepsy. *Epilepsy Curr.* 2002, 2, 191-193.
(30) Wu, J.; Ishikawa, M.; Zhang, J.; Hashimoto, K. Brain imaging of nicotinic receptors in Alzheimer’s disease. *Int. J. Alzheimers Dis.* 2010, 2010, 548913.
(31) Quik, M.; Bordia, T.; Huang, L.; Perez, X. Targeting nicotinic receptors for Parkinson’s disease therapy. *CNS Neurol. Disord. Drug Targets* 2011, 10, 651-658.
(32) Gotti, C.; Zoli, M.; Clementi, F. Brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors: native subtypes and their relevance. *Trends Pharmacol. Sci.* 2006, 27, 482-491.
(33) Parikh, V.; Kutlu, M. G.; Gould, T. J. nAChR dysfunction as a common substrate for schizophrenia and comorbid nicotine addiction: Current trends and perspectives. *Schizophr. Res.* 2016, 171, 1-15.
(34) Hone, A. J.; McIntosh, J. M. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in neuropathic and inflammatory pain. *FEBS Lett.* 2018, 592, 1045-1062.
(35) Leslie, F. M.; Mojica, C. Y.; Reynaga, D. D. Nicotinic receptors in addiction pathways. *Mol. Pharmacol.* 2013, 83, 753-758.
(36) Exley, R.; Clements, M. A.; Hartung, H.; McIntosh, J. M.; Cragg, S. J. a6-Containing Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors Dominate the Nicotine Control of Dopamine Neurotransmission in Nucleus Accumbens. *Neuropsychopharmacology* 2008, 33, 2158-2166.
(37) Gharpure, A.; Teng, J.; Zhuang, Y.; Noviello, C. M.; Walsh, R. M.; Cabuco, R.; Howard, R. J.; Zaveri, N. T.; Lindahl, E.; Hibbs, R. E. Agonist Selectivity and lon Permeation in the a384 Ganglionic Nicotinic Receptor. *Neuron* 2019, 104, 501-511.
(38) Sine, S. M. The nicotinic receptor ligand binding domain. *J. Neurobiol.* 2002, 53, 431-446.
(39) Hansen, S. B.; Sulzenbacher, G.; Huxford, T.; Marchot, P.; Taylor, P.; Bourne, Y. Structures of Aplysia AChBP complexes with nicotinic agonists and antagonists reveal distinctive binding interfaces and conformations. *EMBO J.* 2005, 24, 3635-3646.
(40) Hansen, S. B.; Taylor, P. Galanthamine and Non-competitive Inhibitor Binding to ACh-binding Protein: Evidence for a Binding Site on Non-a-subunit Interfaces of Heteromeric Neuronal Nicotinic Receptors. *J. Mol. Biol.* 2007, 369, 895-901.
(41) Perry, D. C.; Xiao, Y.; Nguyen, H. N.; Musachio, J. L.; Dávila-García, M. I.; Kellar, K. J. Measuring nicotinic receptors with characteristics of a482, a3p2 and a384 subtypes in rat tissues by autoradiography. *J. Neurochem.* 2002, 82, 468-481.
(42) McLaughlin, I.; Dani, J. A.; De Biasi, M. The medial habenula and interpeduncular nucleus circuitry is critical in addiction, anxiety, and mood regulation. *J. Neurochem.* 2017, 142, 130-143.
(43) Lee, H. W.; Yang, S. H.; Kim, J. Y.; Kim, H. The Role of the Medial Habenula Cholinergic System in Addiction and Emotion-Associated Behaviors. *Frontiers in Psychiatry* 2019, 10, 100.
(44) Hussain, R. J.; Taraschenko, O. D.; Glick, S. D. Effects of nicotine, methamphetamine and cocaine on extracellular levels of acetylcholine in the interpeduncular nucleus of rats. *Neurosci. Lett.* 2008, 440, 270-274.
(45) Khroyan, T. V.; Yasuda, D.; Toll, L.; Polgar, W. E.; Zaveri, N. T. High affinity a3B4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ligands AT-1001 and AT-1012 attenuate cocaine-induced conditioned place preference and behavioral sensitization in mice. *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 2015, 97, 531-541.
(46) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, L. M.; Raucci, J.; Sydney, A. Kappa opioid inhibition of morphine and cocaine self-administration in rats. *Brain Res.* 1995, 681, 147-152.
(47) Cameron, L. P.; Tombari, R. J.; Lu, J.; Pell, A. J.; Hurley, Z. Q.; Ehinger, Y.; Vargas, M. V.; McCarroll, M. N.; Taylor, J. C.; Myers-Turnbull, D.; Liu, T.; Yaghoobi, B.; Laskowski, L. J.; Anderson, E. I.; Zhang, G.; Viswanathan, J.; Brown, B. M.; Tjia, M.; Dunlap, L. E.; Rabow, Z. T.; Fiehn, O.; Wulff, H.; McCorvy, J. D.; Lein, P. J.; Kokel, D.; Ron, D.; Peters, J.; Zuo, Y.; Olson, D. E. A non-hallucinogenic psychedelic analogue with therapeutic potential. *Nature* 2021, 589, 474-479.
(48) Glick, S.; Maisonneuve, 1. Mechanisms of Antiaddictive Actions of Ibogaine. *Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci.* 1998, 844, 214-226.
(49) Bandarage, U. K.; Kuehne, M. E.; Glick, S. D. Total syntheses of racemic albifloranine and its anti-addictive congeners, including 18-methoxycoronaridine. *Tetrahedron* 1999, 55, 9405-9424.
(50) Kuehne, M. E.; Wilson, T. E.; Bandarage, U. K.; Dai, W.; Yu, Q. Enantioselective syntheses of coronaridine and 18-methoxycoronaridine. *Tetrahedron* 2001, 57, 2085-2094.
(51) O'Hearn, E.; Long, D. B.; Molliver, M. E. Ibogaine induces glial activation in parasagittal zones of the cerebellum. *Neuroreport* 1993, 4, 299.
(52) Molinari, H. H.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Glick, S. D. Ibogaine neurotoxicity: a re-evaluation. *Brain Res.* 1996, 737, 255-262.
(53) O'Hearn, E.; Molliver, M. E. Degeneration of Purkinje cells in parasagittal zones of the cerebellar vermis after treatment with ibogaine or harmaline. *Neuroscience* 1993, 55, 303-310.
(54) Freeman, S.; Reele, S. B.; Bonelle, J. Patent WO 2021/067549 A1, 2021.
(55) Badio, B.; Padgett, W. L.; Daly, J. W. Ibogaine: A Potent Noncompetitive Blocker of Ganglionic/Neuronal Nicotinic Receptors. *Mol. Pharmacol.* 1997, 51, 1-5.
(56) Arias, H. R.; Rosenberg, A.; Targowska-Duda, K. M.; Feuerbach, D.; Yuan, X. J.; Jozwiak, K.; Moaddel, R.; Wainer, I. W. Interaction of ibogaine with human alpha3beta4-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in different conformational states. *Int. J. Biochem. Cell Biol.* 2010, 42, 1525-1535.
(57) Arias, H. R.; Targowska-Duda, K. M.; Feuerbach, D.; Jozwiak, K. Coronaridine congeners inhibit human 234 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors by interacting with luminal and non-luminal sites. *Int. J. Biochem. Cell Biol.* 2015, 65, 81-90.
(58) Rezvani, A. H.; Cauley, M. C.; Slade, S.; Wells, C.; Glick, S.; Rose, J. E.; Levin, E. D. Acute oral 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) decreases both alcohol intake and IV nicotine self-administration in rats. *Pharmacol., Biochem. Behav.* 2016, 150-151, 153-157.
(59) Miller, C. N.; Ruggery, C.; Kamens, H. M. The a384 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist 18-Methoxycoronaridine decreases binge-like ethanol consumption in adult C57BL/6J mice. *Alcohol* 2019, 79, 1-6.
(60) Glick, S. D.; Maisonneuve, I. M.; Dickinson, H. A. 18-MC reduces methamphetamine and nicotine self-administration in rats. *Neuroreport* 2000, 11, 2013-2015.
(61) Polston, J. E.; Pritchett, C. E.; Sell, E. M.; Glick, S. D. 18-Methoxycoronaridine blocks context-induced reinstatement following cocaine self-administration in rats. *Pharmacol., Biochem. Behav.* 2012, 103, 83-94.
(62) Glick, S. D.; Sell, E. M.; Maisonneuve, I. M. Brain regions mediating a3B4 nicotinic antagonist effects of 18-MC on methamphetamine and sucrose self-administration. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2008, 599, 91-95.
(63) Glick, S. D.; Ramirez, R. L.; Livi, J. M.; Maisonneuve, I. M. 18-Methoxycoronaridine acts in the medial habenula and/or interpeduncular nucleus to decrease morphine self-administration in rats. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2006, 537, 94-98.
(64) Arias, H. R.; Jin, X.; Feuerbach, D.; Drenan, R. M. Selectivity of coronaridine congeners at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and inhibitory activity on mouse medial habenula. *Int. J. Biochem. Cell Biol.* 2017, 92, 202-209.
(65) Reid, L. D.; Glick, S. D.; Menkens, K. A.; French, E. D.; Bilsky, E. J.; Porreca, F. Cocaine self-administration and naltrindole, a delta-selective opioid antagonist. *Neuroreport* 1995, 6, 1409-1412.
(66) Mind Medicine (MindMed) Inc. Opioid Use Disorder: Zolunicant's Potential for Unmet Treatment Needs, May 19, 2022. [https://mindmed.co/news/video/opioid-use-disorder-zolunicants-potential-for-unmet-treatment-needs/?playvideo=true](https://mindmed.co/news/video/opioid-use-disorder-zolunicants-potential-for-unmet-treatment-needs/?playvideo=true) (accessed Sept 13, 2022).
(67) Young, J. M.; Shytle, D. R.; Sanberg, P. R.; George, T. P. Mecamylamine: new therapeutic uses and toxicity/risk profile. *Clin. Ther.* 2001, 23, 532-565.
(68) Webster, J. C.; Francis, M. M.; Porter, J. K.; Robinson, G.; Stokes, C.; Horenstein, B.; Papke, R. L. Antagonist activities of mecamylamine and nicotine show reciprocal dependence on beta subunit sequence in the second transmembrane domain. *Br. J. Pharmacol.* 1999, 127, 1337-1348.
(69) Waterhouse, R. N. Imaging the PCP site of the NMDA ion channel. *Nucl. Med. Biol.* 2003, 30, 869-878.
(70) Lee, K. S.; Tsien, R. W. Mechanism of calcium channel blockade by verapamil, D600, diltiazem and nitrendipine in single dialysed heart cells. *Nature* 1983, 302, 790-794.
(71) Lingle, C. Different types of blockade of crustacean acetylcholine-induced currents. *J. Physiol. (London)* 1983, 339, 419-437.
(72) Ostroumov, K.; Shaikhutdinova, A.; Skorinkin, A. Modeling study of mecamylamine block of muscle type acetylcholine receptors. *Eur. Biophys. J.* 2008, 37, 393-402.
(73) Giniatullin, R. A.; Sokolova, E. M.; Di Angelantonio, S.; Skorinkin, A.; Talantova, M. V.; Nistri, A. Rapid Relief of Block by Mecamylamine of Neuronal Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors of Rat Chromaffin Cells In Vitro: An Electrophysiological and Modeling Study. *Mol. Pharmacol.* 2000, 58, 778-787.
(74) Martin, B. R.; Onaivi, E. S.; Martin, T. J. What is the nature of mecamylamine's antagonism of the central effects of nicotine? *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 1989, 38, 3391-3397.
(75) Suchocki, J. A.; May, E. L.; Martin, T. J.; George, C.; Martin, B. R. Synthesis of 2-exo- and 2-endo-mecamylamine analogs. Structure-activity relationships for nicotinic antagonism in the central nervous system. *J. Med. Chem.* 1991, 34, 1003-1010.
(76) Banerjee, S.; Punzi, J. S.; Kreilick, K.; Abood, L. G. [3H]mecamylamine binding to rat brain membranes: Studies with mecamylamine and nicotine analogues. *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 1990, 40, 2105-2110.
(77) Stone, C. A.; Torchiana, M. L.; Meckelnberg, K. L.; Stavorski, J.; Sletzinger, M.; Stein, G. A.; Ruyle, W. V.; Reinhold, D. F.; Gaines, W. A.; Arnold, H.; Pfister, K., III Chemistry and Structure-Activity Relationships of Mecamylamine and Derivatives. *J. Med. Chem.* 1962, 5, 665-690.
(78) Papke, R. L.; Sanberg, P. R.; Shytle, R. D. Analysis of Mecamylamine Stereoisomers on Human Nicotinic Receptor Subtypes. *J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther.* 2001, 297, 646-656.
(79) Fedorov, N. B.; Benson, L. C.; Graef, J.; Lippiello, P. M.; Bencherif, M. Differential Pharmacologies of Mecamylamine Enantiomers: Positive Allosteric Modulation and Noncompetitive Inhibition. *J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther.* 2009, 328, 525-532.
(80) Lippiello, P. M.; Beaver, J. S.; Gatto, G. J.; James, J. W.; Jordan, K. G.; Traina, V. M.; Xie, J.; Bencherif, M. TC-5214 (S-(+)-Mecamylamine): A Neuronal Nicotinic Receptor Modulator with Antidepressant Activity. *CNS Neuroscience Therapeutics* 2008, 14, 266-277.
(81) Klink, R.; d'Exaerde, A. d. K.; Zoli, M.; Changeux, J. Molecular and Physiological Diversity of Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors in the Midbrain Dopaminergic Nuclei. *J. Neurosci.* 2001, 21, 1452-1463.
(82) Quick, M. W.; Ceballos, R. M.; Kasten, M.; McIntosh, J. M.; Lester, R. A. a3B4 subunit-containing nicotinic receptors dominate function in rat medial habenula neurons. *Neuropharmacology* 1999, 38, 769-783.
(83) Shoaib, M.; Schindler, C. W.; Goldberg, S. R. Nicotine self-administration in rats: strain and nicotine pre-exposure effects on acquisition. *Psychopharmacology (Berl)* 1997, 129, 35-43.
(84) Stolerman, L. P.; Naylor, C.; Elmer, G. I.; Goldberg, S. R. Discrimination and self-administration of nicotine by inbred strains of mice. *Psychopharmacology (Berl)* 1999, 141, 297-306.
(85) Watkins, S. S.; Epping-Jordan, M. P.; Koob, G. F.; Markou, A. Blockade of Nicotine Self-Administration with Nicotinic Antagonists in Rats. *Pharmacol., Biochem. Behav.* 1999, 62, 743-751.
(86) Blokhina, E. A.; Kashkin, V. A.; Zvartau, E. E.; Danysz, W.; Bespalov, A. Y. Effects of nicotinic and NMDA receptor channel blockers on intravenous cocaine and nicotine self-administration in mice. *European Neuropsychopharmacology* 2005, 15, 219-225.
(87) Liu, X.; Caggiula, A. R.; Yee, S. K.; Nobuta, H.; Sved, A. F.; Pechnick, R. N.; Poland, R. E. Mecamylamine Attenuates Cue-Induced Reinstatement of Nicotine-Seeking Behavior in Rats. *Neuropsychopharmacology* 2007, 32, 710-718.
(88) Fowler, C. D.; Kenny, P. J. Intravenous nicotine self-administration and cue-induced reinstatement in mice: Effects of nicotine dose, rate of drug infusion and prior instrumental training. *Neuropharmacology* 2011, 61, 687-698.
(89) Corrigall, W. A.; Coen, K. M. Nicotine maintains robust self-administration in rats on a limited-access schedule. *Psychopharmacology (Berl)* 1989, 99, 473-478.
(90) Risner, M. E.; Goldberg, S. R. A comparison of nicotine and cocaine self-administration in the dog: fixed-ratio and progressive-ratio schedules of intravenous drug infusion. *J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther.* 1983, 224, 319-326.
(91) Spealman, R. D.; Goldberg, S. R. Maintenance of schedule-controlled behavior by intravenous injections of nicotine in squirrel monkeys. *J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther.* 1982, 223, 402-408.
(92) Levin, E. D.; Mead, T.; Rezvani, A. H.; Rose, J. E.; Gallivan, C.; Gross, R. The nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine preferentially inhibits cocaine vs. food self-administration in rats. *Physiol. Behav.* 2000, 71, 565-570.
(93) Hendrickson, L. M.; Zhao-Shea, R.; Tapper, A. R. Modulation of ethanol drinking-in-the-dark by mecamylamine and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists in C57BL/6J mice. *Psychopharmacology (Berl.)* 2009, 204, 563-572.
(94) Lě, A. D.; Corrigall, W. A.; Watchus, J.; Harding, S.; Juzytsch, W.; Li, T. Involvement of Nicotinic Receptors in Alcohol Self-Administration. *Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research* 2000, 24, 155-163.
(95) Kuzmin, A.; Jerlhag, E.; Liljequist, S.; Engel, J. Effects of subunit selective nACh receptors on operant ethanol self-administration and relapse-like ethanol-drinking behavior. *Psychopharmacology (Berl)* 2009, 203, 99-108.
(96) Ford, M. M.; Fretwell, A. M.; Nickel, J. D.; Mark, G. P.; Strong, M. N.; Yoneyama, N.; Finn, D. A. The influence of mecamylamine on ethanol and sucrose self-administration. *Neuropharmacology* 2009, 57, 250-258.
(97) Farook, J. M.; Lewis, B.; Gaddis, J. G.; Littleton, J. M.; Barron, S. Effects of mecamylamine on alcohol consumption and preference in male C57BL/6J mice. *Pharmacology* 2009, 83, 379-384.
(98) Tennant, F. S.; Tarver, A. L. Withdrawal from nicotine dependence using mecamylamine: comparison of three-week and six-week dosage schedules. *NIDA Res. Monogr.* 1984, 55, 291-297.
(99) Tennant, F. S.; Tarver, A. L.; Rawson, R. A. Clinical evaluation of mecamylamine for withdrawal from nicotine dependence. *NIDA Res. Monogr* 1984, 49, 239-246.
(100) Rose, J. E.; Behm, F. M.; Westman, E. C.; Levin, E. D.; Stein, R. M.; Ripka, G. V. Mecamylamine combined with nicotine skin patch facilitates smoking cessation beyond nicotine patch treatment alone. *Clinical Pharmacology Therapeutics* 1994, 56, 86-99.
(101) Chi, H.; de Wit, H. Mecamylamine Attenuates the Subjective Stimulant-Like Effects of Alcohol in Social Drinkers. *Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research* 2003, 27, 780-786.
(102) Blomqvist, O.; Hernandez-Avila, C.; Van Kirk, J.; Rose, J. E.; Kranzler, H. R. Mecamylamine Modifies the Pharmacokinetics and Reinforcing Effects of Alcohol. *Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research* 2002, 26, 326-331.
(103) Ralevski, E.; Jane, J. S.; O'Brien, E.; Edens, E.; Arnaout, B.; Kerfoot, K.; Keegan, K.; Weiner, J.; Russo, M.; Petrakis, 1. Mecamylamine for Treatment of People With Dual Diagnoses of Depression and Alcohol Dependence. *Journal of Dual Diagnosis* 2013, 9, 301-310.
(104) Shytle, R. D.; Silver, A. A.; Lukas, R. J.; Newman, M. B.; Sheehan, D. V.; Sanberg, P. R. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors as targets for antidepressants. *Mol. Psychiatry* 2002, 7, 525-535.
(105) Shytle, R. D.; Silver, A. A.; Sheehan, K. H.; Sheehan, D. V.; Sanberg, P. R. Neuronal nicotinic receptor inhibition for treating mood disorders: preliminary controlled evidence with mecamylamine. *Depress. Anxiety* 2002, 16, 89-92.
(106) Shytle, R. D.; Penny, E.; Silver, A. A.; Goldman, J.; Sanberg, P. R. Mecamylamine (Inversine): an old antihypertensive with new research directions. *J. Hum. Hypertens.* 2002, 16, 453-457.
(107) Jin, A.; Muttenthaler, M.; Dutertre, S.; Himaya, S. W. A.; Kaas, Q.; Craik, D. J.; Lewis, R. J.; Alewood, P. F. Conotoxins: Chemistry and Biology. *Chem. Rev.* 2019, 119, 11510.
(108) Layer, R.; McIntosh, J. Conotoxins: therapeutic potential and application. *Marine Drugs* 2006, 4, 119-142.
(109) Lebbe, E. K. M.; Peigneur, S.; Wijesekara, L.; Tytgat, J. Conotoxins Targeting Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors: An Overview. *Marine drugs* 2014, 12, 2970-3004.
(110) Livett, B. G.; Sandall, D. W.; Keays, D.; Down, J.; Gayler, K. R.; Satkunanathan, N.; Khalil, Z. Therapeutic applications of conotoxins that target the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. *Toxicon (Oxford)* 2006, 48, 810-829.
(111) Gao, B.; Peng, C.; Yang, J.; Yi, Y.; Zhang, J.; Shi, Q. Cone Snails: A Big Store of Conotoxins for Novel Drug Discovery. *Toxins* 2017, 9, 397.
(112) Abraham, N.; Lewis, R. J. Neuronal Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Modulators from Cone Snails. *Marine Drugs* 2018, 16, 208.
(113) Jin, A.; Brandstaetter, H.; Nevin, S. T.; Tan, C. C.; Clark, R. J.; Adams, D. J.; Alewood, P. F.; Craik, D. J.; Daly, N. L. Structure of a-conotoxin BulA: influences of disulfide connectivity on structural dynamics. *BMC Structural Biology* 2007, 7, 28.
(114) Kompella, S. N.; Hung, A.; Clark, R. J.; Mari, F.; Adams, D. J. Alanine Scan of a-Conotoxin RegIIA Reveals a Selective a384 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonist. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2015, 290, 1039-1048.
(115) Tae, H.; Gao, B.; Jin, A.; Alewood, P. F.; Adams, D. J. Globular and ribbon isomers of Conus geographus a-conotoxins antagonize human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 2021, 190, 114638.
(116) Janes, R. W. a-Conotoxins as selective probes for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subclasses. *Current Opinion in Pharmacology* 2005, 5, 280-292.
(117) McIntosh, J. M.; Santos, A. D.; Olivera, B. M. Conus Peptides Targeted to Specific Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Subtypes. *Annual review of biochemistry* 1999, 68, 59-88.
(118) Luo, S.; Kulak, J. M.; Cartier, G. E.; Jacobsen, R. B.; Yoshikami, D.; Olivera, B. M.; McIntosh, J. M. a-Conotoxin AuIB Selectively Blocks a384 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors and Nicotine-Evoked Norepinephrine Release. *J. Neurosci.* 1998, 18, 8571-8579.
(119) Grishin, A. A.; Cuny, H.; Hung, A.; Clark, R. J.; Brust, A.; Akondi, K.; Alewood, P. F.; Craik, D. J.; Adams, D. J. Identifying Key Amino Acid Residues That Affect a-Conotoxin AuIB Inhibition of a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2013, 288, 34428-34442.
(120) Luo, S.; Zhangsun, D.; Zhu, X.; Wu, Y.; Hu, Y.; Christensen, S.; Harvey, P. J.; Akcan, M.; Craik, D. J.; McIntosh, J. M. Characterization of a Novel a-Conotoxin TxID from Conus textile That Potently Blocks Rat 03/14 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Med. Chem.* 2013, 56, 9655-9663.
(121) Grishin, A. A.; Wang, C. A.; Muttenthaler, M.; Alewood, P. F.; Lewis, R. J.; Adams, D. J. a-Conotoxin AuIB Isomers Exhibit Distinct Inhibitory Mechanisms and Differential Sensitivity to Stoichiometry of a384 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2010, 285, 22254-22263.
(122) Cuny, H.; Kompella, S. N.; Tae, H.; Yu, R.; Adams, D. J. Key Structural Determinants in the Agonist Binding Loops of Human 2 and 4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Subunits Contribute to a3B4 Subtype Selectivity of a-Conotoxins. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2016, 291, 23779-23792.
(123) Franco, A.; Kompella, S. N.; Akondi, K. B.; Melaun, C.; Daly, N. L.; Luetje, C. W.; Alewood, P. F.; Craik, D. J.; Adams, D. J.; Mari, F. RegIIA: An a4/7-conotoxin from the venom of Conus regius that potently blocks a3B4 nAChRs. *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 2012, 83, 419-426.
(124) Abraham, N.; Healy, M.; Ragnarsson, L.; Brust, A.; Alewood, P. F.; Lewis, R. J. Structural mechanisms for a-conotoxin activity at the human a3/84 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. *Sci. Rep.* 2017, 7, 45466.
(125) Azam, L.; Dowell, C.; Watkins, M.; Stitzel, J. A.; Olivera, B. M.; McIntosh, J. M. a-Conotoxin BulA, a Novel Peptide from Conus bullatus, Distinguishes among Neuronal Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2005, 280, 80-87.
(126) Dowell, C.; Olivera, B. M.; Garrett, J. E.; Staheli, S. T.; Watkins, M.; Kuryatov, A.; Yoshikami, D.; Lindstrom, J. M.; McIntosh, J. M. a-Conotoxin PIA Is Selective for a6 Subunit-Containing Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Neurosci.* 2003, 23, 8445-8452.
(127) McIntosh, J. M.; Dowell, C.; Watkins, M.; Garrett, J. E.; Yoshikami, D.; Olivera, B. M. a-Conotoxin GIC from Conus geographus, a Novel Peptide Antagonist of Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Biol. Chem.* 2002, 277, 33610-33615.
(128) Luo, S.; Zhangsun, D.; Schroeder, C. I.; Zhu, X.; Hu, Y.; Wu, Y.; Weltzin, M. M.; Eberhard, S.; Kaas, Q.; Craik, D. J.; McIntosh, J. M.; Whiteaker, P. A novel a4/7-conotoxin LvIA from Conus lividus that selectively blocks a3B2 vs. a6/a33283 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. *FASEB j.* 2014, 28, 1842.
(129) Inserra, M. C.; Kompella, S. N.; Vetter, I.; Brust, A.; Daly, N. L.; Cuny, H.; Craik, D. J.; Alewood, P. F.; Adams, D. J.; Lewis, R. J. Isolation and characterization of a-conotoxin LsIA with potent activity at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. *Biochem. Pharmacol.* 2013, 86, 791-799.
(130) Wu, Y.; Zhangsun, D.; Zhu, X.; Kaas, Q.; Zhangsun, M.; Harvey, P. J.; Craik, D. J.; McIntosh, J. M.; Luo, S. a-Conotoxin [S9A]TxID Potently Discriminates between a384 and a6/a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *J. Med. Chem.* 2017, 60, 5826.
(131) Yu, J.; Zhu, X.; Harvey, P. J.; Kaas, Q.; Zhangsun, D.; Craik, D. J.; Luo, S. Single Amino Acid Substitution in a-Conotoxin TxID Reveals a Specific a3/4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonist. *J. Med. Chem.* 2018, 61, 9256-9265.
(132) Chang, Y.; Banerjee, J.; Dowell, C.; Wu, J.; Gyanda, R.; Houghten, R. A.; Toll, L.; McIntosh, J. M.; Armishaw, C. J. Discovery of a Potent and Selective a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonist from an a-Conotoxin Synthetic Combinatorial Library. *J. Med. Chem.* 2014, 57, 3511-3521.
(133) McCallum, S. E.; Cowe, M. A.; Lewis, S. W.; Glick, S. D. a3B4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the medial habenula modulate the mesolimbic dopaminergic response to acute nicotine in vivo. *Neuropharmacology* 2012, 63, 434-440.
(134) Jackson, K. J.; Sanjakdar, S. S.; Muldoon, P. P.; McIntosh, J. M.; Damaj, M. 1. The a384 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype mediates nicotine reward and physical nicotine withdrawal signs independently of the a5 subunit in the mouse. *Neuropharmacology* 2013, 70, 228-235.
(135) Glick, S. D.; Sell, E. M.; McCallum, S. E.; Maisonneuve, I. M. Brain regions mediating a3/4 nicotinic antagonist effects of 18-MC on nicotine self-administration. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2011, 669, 71-75.
(136) Li, X.; You, S.; Xiong, J.; Qiao, Y.; Yu, J.; Zhangsun, D.; Luo, S. a-Conotoxin TxID and [S9K]TxID, a384 nAChR Antagonists, Attenuate Expression and Reinstatement of Nicotine-Induced Conditioned Place Preference in Mice. *Marine Drugs* 2020, 18, 646.
(137) Elayouby, K. S.; Ishikawa, M.; Dukes, A. J.; Smith, A. C. W.; Lu, Q.; Fowler, C. D.; Kenny, P. J. a3 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors in the Habenula-Interpeduncular Nucleus Circuit Regulate Nicotine Intake. *J. Neurosci.* 2021, 41, 1779-1787.
(138) Muldoon, P. P.; Jackson, K. J.; Perez, E.; Harenza, J. L.; Molas, S.; Rais, B.; Anwar, H.; Zaveri, N. T.; Maldonado, R.; Maskos, U.; McIntosh, J. M.; Dierssen, M.; Miles, M. F.; Chen, X.; De Biasi, M.; Damaj, M. I. The a384 nicotinic ACh receptor subtype mediates physical dependence to morphine: mouse and human studies. *Br. J. Pharmacol.* 2014, 171, 3845-3857.
(139) Glick, S. D.; Ramirez, R. L.; Livi, J. M.; Maisonneuve, I. M. 18-Methoxycoronaridine acts in the medial habenula and/or interpeduncular nucleus to decrease morphine self-administration in rats. *Eur. J. Pharmacol.* 2006, 537, 94-98.
(140) Donvito, G.; Muldoon, P. P.; Jackson, K. J.; Ahmad, U.; Zaveri, N. T.; McIntosh, J. M.; Chen, X.; Lichtman, A. H.; Damaj, M. I. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediate A9-THC dependence: Mouse and human studies. *Addict Biol.* 2020, 25, No. e12691.
(141) Gehrmann, J.; Alewood, P. F.; Craik, D. J. Structure determination of the three disulfide bond isomers of a-conotoxin Gl: a model for the role of disulfide bonds in structural stability. *Journal of molecular biology* 1998, 278, 401-415.
(142) Muttenthaler, M.; Nevin, S. T.; Grishin, A. A.; Ngo, S. T.; Choy, P. T.; Daly, N. L.; Hu, S.; Armishaw, C. J.; Wang, C. A.; Lewis, R. J.; Martin, J. L.; Noakes, P. G.; Craik, D. J.; Adams, D. J.; Alewood, P. F. Solving the a-Conotoxin Folding Problem: Efficient Selenium-Directed On-Resin Generation of More Potent and Stable Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonists. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2010, 132, 3514-3522.
(143) Astraea Therapeutics. Empowering patients fighting substance addiction. [https://www.astraeatherapeutics.com](https://www.astraeatherapeutics.com) (accessed Aug 17, 2022).
(144) Zaveri, N.; Jiang, F.; Olsen, C.; Polgar, W.; Toll, L. Novel a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor-Selective Ligands. Discovery, Structure-Activity Studies, and Pharmacological Evaluation. *J. Med. Chem.* 2010, 53, 8187-8191.
(145) Toll, L.; Zaveri, N. T; Polgar, W. E; Jiang, F.; Khroyan, T. V; Zhou, W.; Xie, X.; Stauber, G. B; Costello, M. R; Leslie, F. M AT-1001: A High Affinity and Selective a3/B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonist Blocks Nicotine Self-Administration in Rats. *Neuropsychopharmacology* 2012, 37, 1367-1376.
(146) Wu, J.; Perry, D. C.; Bupp, J. E.; Jiang, F.; Polgar, W. E.; Toll, L.; Zaveri, N. T. [1251] AT-1012, a new high affinity radioligand for the a384 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. *Neuropharmacology* 2014, 77, 193-199.
(147) Cippitelli, A.; Wu, J.; Gaiolini, K. A.; Mercatelli, D.; Schoch, J.; Gorman, M.; Ramirez, A.; Ciccocioppo, R.; Khroyan, T. V.; Yasuda, D.; Zaveri, N. T.; Pascual, C.; Xie, X.; Toll, L. AT-1001: a high-affinity 0384 nAChR ligand with novel nicotine-suppressive pharmacology. *Br. J. Pharmacol.* 2015, 172, 1834-1845.
(148) Knox, H. J.; Rego Campello, H.; Lester, H. A.; Gallagher, T.; Dougherty, D. A. Characterization of Binding Site Interactions and Selectivity Principles in the a3/34 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2022, 144, 16101-16117.
(149) Yuan, M.; Malagon, A. M.; Yasuda, D.; Belluzzi, J. D.; Leslie, F. M.; Zaveri, N. T. The a384 nAChR partial agonist AT-1001 attenuates stress-induced reinstatement of nicotine seeking in a rat model of relapse and induces minimal withdrawal in dependent rats. *Behavioural Brain Research* 2017, 333, 251-257.
(150) Cippitelli, A.; Brunori, G.; Gaiolini, K. A.; Zaveri, N. T.; Toll, L. Pharmacological stress is required for the anti-alcohol effect of the 23/B4* nAChR partial agonist AT-1001. *Neuropharmacology* 2015, 93, 229-236.
(151) Coe, J. W.; Vetelino, M. G.; Bashore, C. G.; Wirtz, M. C.; Brooks, P. R.; Arnold, E. P.; Lebel, L. A.; Fox, C. B.; Sands, S. B.; Davis, T. I.; Schulz, D. W.; Rollema, H.; Tingley, F. D.; O'Neill, B. T. In pursuit of a4B2 nicotinic receptor partial agonists for smoking cessation: Carbon analogs of (-)-cytisine. *Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett.* 2005, 15, 2974-2979.
(152) Coe, J. W.; Brooks, P. R.; Wirtz, M. C.; Bashore, C. G.; Bianco, K. E.; Vetelino, M. G.; Arnold, E. P.; Lebel, L. A.; Fox, C. B.; Tingley, F. D.; Schulz, D. W.; Davis, T. I.; Sands, S. B.; Mansbach, R. S.; Rollema, H.; O'Neill, B. T. 3,5-Bicyclic aryl piperidines: A novel class of a4ß2 neuronal nicotinic receptor partial agonists for smoking cessation. *Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett.* 2005, 15, 4889-4897.
(153) Lowe, J. A.; DeNinno, S. L.; Coe, J. W.; Zhang, L.; Mente, S.; Hurst, R. S.; Mather, R. J.; Ward, K. M.; Shrikhande, A.; Rollema, H.; Johnson, D. E.; Horner, W.; Gorczyca, R.; Tingley, F. D.; Kozak, R.; Majchrzak, M. J.; Tritto, T.; Sadlier, J.; Shaffer, C. L.; Ellerbrock, B.; Osgood, S. M.; MacDougall, M. C.; McDowell, L. L. A novel series of N-[3.2.1] azabicyclic biaryl ethers as a384 and a6/484 nicotinic receptor agonists. *Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett.* 2010, 20, 4749-4752.
(154) Zaveri, N. T.; Jiang, F. U.S. Patent 9,062,042 B2, 2015.
(155) Chatterjee, S.; Steensland, P.; Simms, J. A.; Holgate, J.; Coe, J. W.; Hurst, R. S.; Shaffer, C. L.; Lowe, J.; Rollema, H.; Bartlett, S. E. Partial Agonists of the a384 Neuronal Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Reduce Ethanol Consumption and Seeking in Rats. *Neuropsychopharmacology* 2011, 36, 603-615.
(156) Salaga, M.; Kowalczuk, A.; Zielinska, M.; Błażewicz, A.; Fichna, J. Calea zacatechichi dichloromethane extract exhibits antidiarrheal and antinociceptive effects in mouse models mimicking irritable bowel syndrome. *Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. Pharmacol.* 2015, 388, 1069-1077.
(157) Argade, M. D.; Straub, C. J.; Rusali, L. E.; Santarsiero, B. D.; Riley, A. P. Synthesis of Aristoquinoline Enantiomers and Their Evaluation at the a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor. *Org. Lett.* 2021, 23, 7693-7697.
(158) Arias, H. R.; Ortells, M. O.; Feuerbach, D.; Burgos, V.; Paz, C. Alkaloids Purified from Aristotelia chilensis Inhibit the Human a3B4 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor with Higher Potencies Compared with the Human a4B2 and a7 Subtypes. *J. Nat. Prod.* 2019, 82, 1953-1960.
(159) Richards, D. P.; Patel, R. N.; Duce, I. R.; Khambay, B. P. S.; Birkett, M. A.; Pickett, J. A.; Mellor, 1. R. (-)-Adaline from the Adalia Genus of Ladybirds Is a Potent Antagonist of Insect and Specific Mammalian Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors. *Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)* 2022, 27, 7074.
(160) Kachel, H. S.; Patel, R. N.; Franzyk, H.; Mellor, I. R. Block of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors by philanthotoxins is strongly dependent on their subunit composition. *Sci. Rep.* 2016, 6, 38116.
(161) Crummy, E. A.; O'Neal, T. J.; Baskin, B. M.; Ferguson, S. M. One Is Not Enough: Understanding and Modeling Polysubstance Use. *Front. Neurosci.* 2020, 14, 569.
(162) Pearl, S. M.; Hough, L. B.; Boyd, D. L.; Glick, S. D. Sex Differences in Ibogaine Antagonism of Morphine-induced Locomotor Activity and in Ibogaine Brain Levels and Metabolism. *Pharmacol., Biochem. Behav.* 1997, 57, 809-815.
(163) Kuehne, M. E.; He, L.; Jokiel, P. A.; Pace, C. J.; Fleck, M. W.; Maisonneuve, 1. M.; Glick, S. D.; Bidlack, J. M. Synthesis and biological evaluation of 18-methoxycoronaridine congeners. Potential antiaddiction agents. *J. Med. Chem.* 2003, 46, 2716-2730.
(164) Deecher, D. C.; Teitler, M.; Soderlund, D. M.; Bornmann, W. G.; Kuehne, M. E.; Glick, S. D. Mechanisms of action of ibogaine and harmaline congeners based on radioligand binding studies. *Brain Res.* 1992, 571, 242-247.
(165) Sheffield, E. B.; Quick, M. W.; Lester, R. A. J. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit mRNA expression and channel function in medial habenula neurons. *Neuropharmacology* 2000, 39, 2591-2603.

---

## See Also

**Parent hub:** [[ORANGE_Mechanisms_Hub]]

- [[2010/Arias2010_Interactions_Ibogaine_NicotinicAChR_Human]] — Earlier nicotinic receptor characterisation
- [[1998/Mah1998_Nicotinic_Receptor_Mechanism]] — Foundational nAChR mechanism work
- [[2023/Ona2023_Ibogaine_Noribogaine_Putative_Anti-Addictive_Effects]] — Anti-addictive mechanism synthesis
- [[2010/Ray2010_Psychedelics_Human_Receptorome]] — Receptorome binding context